
-HEADER-

The app first shows 6 tabs in the page header:

PLAY, DOCUMENTATION, STATISTICS (with a menu: PLOTS, plots code, 
statistics code and algorithm logic), SERVER_CODE, UI_CODE and PITCH.

PLAY is the active tab and shows a pane made of a  sidebar panel and a main panel.

-SIDEBAR PANEL-

SELECT BOX AND SINGLE CHECKBOX:

The sidebar panel shows first a select box allowing 7 choices of quaterly time series
with lengths 211, 149, 108, 89, 84, 39 and 24, respectively,
whose links are provided above.
The first of which is already selected.

Directly below is a single checkbox to make the time series seasonally adjusted if desired.

NOTE:
- selecting a time series, 
- making a change in the single check box (seasonally adjusted or not)
HAVE NO EFFECT IN THE MAIN PANEL UNTIL the GO BUTTON HAS BEEN CLICKED ON.


But selecting a new time series immediately affects the 3 sliders mentioned below 
and a change in the single check box (seasonally adjusted or not) affects a
slider if it has already manually been moved.

3 SLIDERS:

Then 3 sliders allow to determine a test set (period to forecast) and a training set
(observations used to forecast). 
The first slider selects the start of the test set, the second one its end,
and the third one the start of the training set.
The end of the training set is already known since in forecasting the training set
and the test set are consecutive.

The number of quarters selected for the test set is displayed, 
and for the training set as well.

Note that modifying the position of the first slider affects the range of 
the other two.
These are sent to their respective initial extreme position (start or end of 
the time series), and it can be noted that the number displayed at their other
extreme position has changed as well, showing the new limit of the range.

The 3 sliders positions affect the content of the tabs PLOT, ZOOM, ACCURACY, 
TABLE and RESIDUALS, but not that of the tab TS SELECTED which always shows 
the features relative to the entire time series.
(see further below TS SELECTED).

Values newly selected through the sliders 
HAVE NO EFFECT IN THE MAIN PANEL UNTIL the GO BUTTON HAS BEEN CLICKED ON,


GO BUTTON

Used to validate
- the choice made in the SELECT BOX (time series) 
- the choice made in the SINGLE CHECKBOX (seasonally adjusted or not)
- the positions of the sliders.

SECOND SELECT BOX

A second select box allows to select one of 3 measures of accuracy: MAPE, RMSE and MASE.
These give the accuracy of the forecasts (it is possible since the actual values are known).

Selecting a new measure immediately affects the tabs ACCURACY, TABLE and RESIDUALS. 
TABLE is affected since it uses the ranking obtained in ACCURACY and because 
this ranking may change according to the measure selected!
RESIDUALS is also affected since this one deals with the forecasting method
that ranks first, so subject to change.


-TABS IN THE MAIN PANEL-

6 tabs are in the main panel: TS SELECTED, PLOT, ZOOM, ACCURACY, TABLE and RESIDUALS.

Reminder:
- selecting a time series, 
- making a change in the single check box (seasonally adjusted or not)
- modifying the positions of the sliders
HAVE NO EFFECT IN THE MAIN PANEL UNTIL the GO BUTTON HAS BEEN CLICKED ON.


TS SELECTED 
displays some features of the selected time series: length, start and end,
a summary, two kinds of seasonal plots and the autocorrelation function.


PLOT
displays in a plot the observations of the training set and of the test set
selected through the sidebar panel, along with the forecasts made by 
the 7 forecasting methods.

ZOOM
Same as PLOT but only shows the test set and the forecasts so as to get a more 
readable plot.
It may happen that some lines are not displayed, because too far away at this scale.

ACCURACY
for the measure selected,
- displays the value of the accuracy obtained by each forecasting method
(for the forecasts relative to the training and test sets selected).

- displays the resulting ranking as well.


TABLE
displays the actual values of the test set along with the forecasts 
of the top 3 ranked models, starting from the best one.


RESIDUALS
displays for the forecasting method that ranked first, two plots:
a histogram of the residuals and their autocorrelation function, allowing to see
through spikes whether the forecasts are good or not.  


going back to
-HEADER-

DOCUMENTATION (here)

STATISTICS
Nothing beats experiencing different positions of the sliders and different 
time series, but statistics are nice too! So, given a time series, we considered
many training sets and test sets and were interested for each forecasting method
in the percentage of times when it ranked n°1 and in the mean and standard deviation
of its MAPE.  

STATISTICS / PLOTS
(Allow a few seconds to have them displayed).
This tab displays the plots showing the statistics mentioned above, presented 
in the form of 14 bar plots.
14 plots = 2 plots per time series x 7 time series. 
The first of the two shows for each forecasting method 
the percentage of tests for which the forecasting method ranked n°1, 
and the second one shows its mean MAPE along with its standard deviation. 

STATISTICS / plots code
shows the code generating the 14 plots mentioned above, 
saved to the file plots14_code.Rmd.

STATISTICS / statistics code
shows the code saved to the file "statistics_code.Rmd".
Given a time series,this code calculates for each forecasting method 
the percentage of tests for which the method ranked n°1, 
and the mean and standard deviation of its MAPE as well.

STATISTICS / algorithm logic
gives the way the tests carried out in "statistics_code.Rmd" are built.


SERVER_CODE and  UI_CODE 
show the codes server.R and ui.R respectively.

PITCH 
- provides the link to the pitch
- shows the codes of the pitch chunks.
